------------------ Skill Proficiencies ------------------
The following skill checks are equivalent to checks with
the toolkit appropriate to performing the skill. Worded
differently, skill proficiencies are tool proficiencies
and vice-versa.

Possessing the correct tools for a task
will provide a large bonus, using improvised tools for a
task will provide a small bonus, and using no tools
will incur a small penalty.

Appraise, Cook, Craft, Dance, Play, Repair, Treat, and Wield are
skills that apply to different kinds of objects. Actors may
have multiple copies of these skills, "instantiated" for
the particular class of item. One actor may be skilled in
Appraise <Jewelry>, but another might be skilled in
Appraise <Real Estate>. The categories are left to the
player's imagination and the game master's discretion.

Too general a category will grant too much leeway, but
too specific and the actor will seldom find it useful.
Craft <Musical Instrument> may be too broad, while
Craft <Violin> might be too narrow. A middle ground, such
as Craft <Bowed Instrument>, might be more suitable for
one actor.

Play and Wield are intended to be somewhat more specific.
It would not be unreasonable for an actor to simply have
Play <Guitar> or Wield <Longsword>.

The game master should offer advice as to what level of
detail they will be running the game at, and whether
specificity or generality is preferred for the roleplaying
environment.

It is the player's decision as to whether they specialize
in a small set of skills which they grow quickly, or to
spread out among several different disciplines. For skills
which require tools, instruments, or weapons, the player
must possess the appropriate equipment when they level up
to advance these skills. Roleplaying practice is recommended,
but whether it is required is left to game master discretion.

Skills whose attribute is marked with a * are from a non-core module, but are
being used in current playtesting and development.

Skills have usage limitations. Non-combat skills cannot be used under the
stress of fighting, but can be used in other contexts. Combat skills can only
be used in combat as the type of action they are specified for (i.e. Primary,
Secondary, or Tertiary), but can be used out of combat in any context which is
appropriate.

Some skills involve tools. The game master can decide whether a task is
impossible or merely impeded due to a lack of tools. When an actor engages in
a task that is merely impeded without tools, a modifier is applied to their
skill check according to what supplies they have:

  No tools:                    -10
  Partial or improvised tools:  0
  Appropriate tools:           +10

Where the game master deems appropriate, skill checks may situationally call
for a different attribute. Any skill check may be rolled with Knowledge in
place of its usual Attribute for history or technical information about that
skill, as an example.


Appraise <Type of Item>
  Attribute: Knowledge
  Usage: Non-combat
  
  Appraise is a measure of an actor's ability to judge the usefulness and
  monetary value of items, objects, or services of the specified type. An
  actor might use this skill when deciding what to bring back from a treasure
  horde, or when looking for an item in a shop to haggle with the shopkeeper
  about.

Attune
  Attribute: Soul*
  Usage: Secondary
  
  Attune is a measure of an actor's ability to interface with magical items
  and constructs, and attempting to use such items will require an Attune
  check.
  
Bargain
  Attribute: Allure
  Usage: Primary
  
  Bargain is a measure of an actor's ability to strike and close deals, be
  those deals of a mundane monetary nature, or when negotiating the terms of
  far-reaching political intrigue. This can also be used to attempt to bring
  combat to a peaceful end, either by surrendering or by yielding, as
  appropriate.

Blend
  Attribute: Presence
  Usage: Non-combat
  
  Blend is a measure of an actor's ability to act like other actors in their
  environment, and to go unnoticed despite being an outsider. Blending hides
  the actor in plain sight, without disguise or stealth, causing them to go
  unnoticed purely because nothing about them seems worth noticing.

Brawl
  Attribute: Vigor
  Usage: Primary
  
  Brawl is a measure of an actor's ability to fight with only their body --
  arms, legs, hands, feet, head, etc. 

Cast <Type of Magic>
  Attribute: Soul*
  Usage: Non-combat
  
  Cast is a measure of an actor's ability to cast spells that require time and
  patience. This is the mechanism by which spells with long casting times or
  lots of requisite preparation are cast, although spells which ordinarily are
  used in combat can be cast with this skill for utility purposes when not
  under duress. 
  
Charm
  Attribute: Allure
  Usage: Secondary
  
  Charm is a measure of an actor's ability to appeal to another actor's
  emotions or attractions to influence their mood or point of view.
  
Climb
  Attribute: Vigor
  Usage: Primary
  Tools: Pitons and rope or a grappling hook for scaling vertically without
         handholds.
  
  Climb is a measure of an actor's ability to scale and rappel steep surfaces
  and objects. In instances of scaling a wall or cliff with few handholds,
  tools are necessary.

Cook <Type of Food>
  Attribute: Knowledge
  Usage: Non-combat
  Tools: Dishes, cooking vessels, utensils.
  
  Cook is a measure of an actor's ability to produce palatable, nutritious
  food of the specified type. Use of this skill as a measure of cooking
  knowledge does not require tools.

Craft <Type of Item> 
  Attribute: Knowledge
  Usage: Non-combat
  Tools: Trade-specific.
  
  Craft is a measure of an actor's ability to create items of the specified
  type. Use of this skill as a measure of crafting knowledge does not require
  tools.
  
Dance <Style of Dance>
  Attribute: Agility         
  Usage: Non-combat
  
  Dance is a measure of an actor's ability to move rhythmically as a means of
  artistic expression, in a specified style that they practice.

Deceive
  Attribute: Allure
  Usage: Secondary
  
  Deceive is a measure of an actor's ability to convincingly conceal or
  corrupt the truth by how they control their voice and choose to reveal or
  omit information.

Detect Magic
  Attribute: Soul*
  Usage: Tertiary
  Detect Magic is a measure of an actor's ability to sense magical effects or
  metaphysical presences in their environment.

Disguise
  Attribute: Intuition
  Usage: Non-combat
  Tools: Clothes, cosmetics, and props as appropriate
  
  Disguise is a measure of an actor's ability to conceal the identity of
  themselves or another actor by altering their external appearance
  
Draw                      Attribute: Finesse
Fasten                    Attribute: Finesse
Forage                    Attribute: Intuition
Garden <Type of Plant>    Attribute: Knowledge
Handle Animal             Attribute: Presence
Handwrite                 Attribute: Finesse
Hide                      Attribute: Agility
Intimidate                Attribute: Presence
Investigate               Attribute: Allure
Jump                      Attribute: Vigor
Lift                      Attribute: Vigor
Listen                    Attribute: Intuition
Look                      Attribute: Intuition
Navigate                  Attribute: Knowledge
Persuade                  Attribute: Allure
Play <Type of Instrument> Attribute: Knowledge
Recall                    Attribute: Knowledge
Repair <Type of Item>     Attribute: Knowledge
Run                       Attribute: Resilience
Search                    Attribute: Intuition
Sense Motive              Attribute: Intuition
Sing                      Attribute: Allure
Sneak                     Attribute: Agility
Swim                      Attribute: Resilience
Tamper                    Attribute: Finesse
Track Creature            Attribute: Intuition
Treat <Type of Disease>   Attribute: Knowledge
Treat <Type of Injury>    Attribute: Knowledge
Wield <Melee Weapon>      Attribute: Vigor           Primary
Wield <Aimed Weapon>      Attribute: Finesse         Primary
Wield <Type of Magic>     Attribute: Soul*
